Our tests are definitely running correctly but at this point there are a couple of issues with our current
testing setup.
So in this video I want to point out a couple of those different issues we're still working on how to
put some tests together without any outside testing library.
So we're going to fix up these couple of issues that I mentioned inside this video right after that.
We're going to replace our little testing implementation with a very official very commonly used in
the community testing library.
Again remember I'm going to show you the like right way quote unquote or the community convention style
way of doing testing the library that we use for that.
The reason that I want to identify some issues with our current setup and show you how to fix them is
that the instant we do and then start to refactor over to using this other testing library you're going
to see that the difference between the code that we put together and the approach and using this very
official testing library is like zero.
In other words our setup with tiny tiny effort is going to be almost identical to using this testing
library.
And the reason we're going to go through this is just a really home in the point hammered in that all
these testing frameworks are essentially the same even if we put one together.
So let's get to it.
We're going to identify a couple of issues with our current testing setup and then start to fix them
up.
So the first big issue that we can identify really easily is the fact that all of our different variables
inside of index not test out us are defined in like the global scope of this file.
So for example take a look at const result right here.
I define const result inside the global scope of the file.
That means that I can not redefine or reassign results anywhere else inside here.
So in other words if I want to run another test of the map function down here I can not say Conte's
results equals whatever.
Instead I would have to rename this variable something like const one or two or three included.
That starts to get really weird really quickly.
We never want to end up with variable names like this the fact that everything is inside the global
scope of the file is really not appropriate that's Big Issue number one.
The second big issue is that if any of our tests throw in air.
So like let's say the test for for each right here.
If something goes wrong with this test that means that no other test inside the file is going to actually
be executed.
So take a look.
If I change this if not six to if not seven.
This test is now going to fail right after that test.
I'll put in a console log of didn't get here to indicate that we are not going to execute that line
of code.
The reason we're not going to execute it is the instant we throw an error our entire program or the
entire node process is going to stop.
Let's save this put back over to our terminal I will rerun node index test J.S. and I will see the error
that just came out but I don't see that console logged anywhere inside of here.
So ideally if anything goes wrong with one test it shouldn't really fail everything.
I would still really like for all of our tests to run so I can get a kind of total report of everything
that is going wrong inside of my application and not just the first thing that goes wrong.
That is issue number two the final big issue is that it's really hard to figure out if something goes
wrong where that error occurred.
Right now it's really home in on that we would have to take a look at our console.
We would have to find this error message right here and then go hunting through all of our different
tests and find something with that error message.
So like okay it's right there.
In this case it's really easy to find.
But you can imagine if we had a test file with like hundreds of lines of code it might be a little bit
challenging to find the exact test that is causing an error so I would really like if whenever we start
to run a test we could kind of print out a description of the test we're about to run something like
if we did a console log up here to say has four for each.
And then when we start the MAP test if we did a console log of like tests for map.
Now if we had any error occur we could look right above the error.
We could see what the console log was and that would help us just home in on what test actually failed.
So I got to see this really quickly rerun it.
And now when I get the air I can look right above the air and I'll see OK this air must have occurred
while we were running the test for for each.
So that is the third big issue.
We don't really have a good way of labeling our different tests so like I said we're going to write
just a little bit of code to fix all three of these issues in one go.
Again our big issues are all of our variables are scoped the entire file.
One error causes the entire file to stop.
And we don't have any good descriptions of each individual test that is solve each of this.
We're going to make a little helper function at the very top of the file.
I'm going to create a helper function called test.
We're going to call this test function with a string description.
So like a description of the test we're about to run I'm going to receive that as an argument called
DSP short for description and then the second argument is going to be a function.
I'm going to call it simply f then the F N or the function right here that we're going to pass in is
going to wrap up all of our different testing logic for each individual test so inside of here we will
provide a really quick implementation.
Then we're going to refactor our two tests to make use of the test function.
So here's the idea just as we're about to run each individual individual test I will do a console log
of dash dash dash and then the description of the test the dashes right there are just to help us like
read the title The test inside of our terminal and then immediately after that I will simply call the
function that gets passed in.
So now we're going to rewrite each of our tests using the test function.
We're going to call test we're gonna pass in a description and then we're going to wrap up all the current
testing logic into a little callback function that gets provided as the f an argument right here.
Let me show you exactly what that looks like for the for each test we would write out something like
test the for each function.
Now I'll pass in the function as a second argument.
Again this is going to be that event thing right there and inside that function I'm going to place all
of my test related logic or the for each function.
So I'll cut all that and paste it in like so I'm not gonna repeat that same process for the map test
as well.
So down here I'm going to call test the map function
and then I'll cut and paste all of my map related test code.
I'll take all this.
I'm going to cut all of it and paste it into the test function like so.
All right.
So now this approach right here solves two of our really big issues.
The first issue that it solves is the fact that we can now reuse different variable names inside the
same file because now say for example this result variable is scoped to this function right here.
Now I could write another test down below it and inside there I could reuse the concert or ask me the
result variable name once again.
That issue definitely got solved with this approach the next big issue that this solves is the fact
that we can now see automatically a little description for each test that is about to run.
Now we can see the title of each test right above each error message that might occur.
So that's the second big issue that we just solved now the third issue that we still have to fix up
is that right now we're still going to have our entire program end.
The instant that we throw any error.
So if anything goes wrong in any individual test the entire program is just going to come down crashing
so to fix this up we're going to go back into our test function and we're going to simply wrap F and
right here inside of a try catch statement.
So I a place try I will then run the function I'll then catch the error if any occurs while we're running
the test and then if something goes wrong while running that test we're going to simply print out that
error message from the air so we'll say console dot log e r dot message.
Like so
now it's entirely OK if something goes wrong inside of a test function so something inside of here can
throw an error and that's not going to end the entire program.
Instead we're going to catch the error.
We're going to log it and we'll move on to executing the next test inside of our file.
Let's now save this and we'll try to run it again as a quick reminder my for each function right here
still has an incorrect check.
I'm still checking to see if some is not equal to 7.
So when I run this file I'm going to expect to see a very clear error message stating that something
went wrong with the.
For each function test and I'll expect to see an error of something like that right there.
So going to say this look back over rerun the file and there we go.
So now I can see.
OK.
I was running for each function I expected to get the summing array equal to six.
But it was not so looks like this approach solves all three of our big issues.
So now that we fix this up I can go back over and just really quickly change that some not equal to
seven just down to six like so.
All right.
So what you see right here even though we put this code together it's very similar to how just about
every single testing library and framework out there actually operates in just about every library you're
going to see this exact approach right here.
We're going to have some function that we're going to call the first argument is going to be some string
describing the tests we're about to run.
The second argument is going to be a function that wraps up all of our test related code and inside
there we will run some code we'll actually do a test and if something wrong goes wrong we'll throw an
error or do something very similar.
We will then have a test running function of sorts like this right here.
It's going to try to run every test in order.
And if anything goes wrong it's going to catch the error in slug it out at the terminal.
Now you seen this.
We're gonna take a quick pause.
We're going to come back the next video.
We're gonna make one more very small update to this file and then like I mentioned we're gonna start
to refactor it back over here to using a third party test framework.
So a quick pause and I'll see you in just a moment.